What I'd also like in addition to the cone of light coming out of the spotlight is also the lens of
the light needs to kind of glow.
So I'm going to come in here and take a look at that object
where we are and in the material of this object I've got the glass spot lens here and it's only got
a glossy on it.
But what let's do is let's add an emission shader as well we'll kind of mix between the two.
So let's see if the editing lay out that we have will help with this.
I'll zoom into that object here.
So here is the glossy Shater.
And why don't I press shift A and add a mix shader.
And shift day and add an emission.
Well let's go ahead and mix between these two.
I'll go ahead and change the viewport shading to rendered.
And let's take a look at this.
So there we can see our lens and the cone of light coming out of it.
Let's mix between these two and see if we can get that's a little too bright.
Let me bring it down just a little bit.
Something like that.
And we ought to also change the color of this maybe to a more blue to match the cone.
So I can change the glossy as well as the emission so I'll hit the little eyedropper here and sample
that blue and that may be a little bit too blue.
Bring that back a bit.
All right.
Let's go with that.
I think that looks pretty good.
I'll switch back to the default view here.
The next thing I'd like to look at is what we're going to see outside of this hole here.
So what's going on out there.
My original idea is that it's a blue sky that it's a bright day outside and that's what's casting that
shaft of light into the room.
Now there are quite a few ways that you can make a sky.
You can come into the world settings and you can bring in and create a sky texture but that kind of
thing contributes to the light of the scene.
And I kind of have the lighting the way I want it.
And also you can take a big hit on render time you can really increase the time it takes to render each
frame and center going to be rendering 300 and some odd frames.
We don't want it to take a half an hour per frame.
So what I'm going to do is kind of a cheat kind of a Down and dirty way to do this to put something
outside that hole there without increasing the render time a whole lot.
So what I want to do is actually just create a polygon plane and put it outside of that hole and then
map an image of a sky onto it and that's it.
So I have the 3-D cursor up here all ready.
I'll go ahead and just create a polygon plane and let's scale it up quite a bit and I'm going to move
it back and tilt it so that it kind of points down into that plane.
Now let's take a look at it from the camera point of view.
I'm going to hit the zero key here and let's move the camera back to its first frame.
And I'll hit the Z key to take a look at this.
So here is my object up here and that's looking pretty good it looks like it will cover that hole.
I'm going to switch to local mode for my transform orientation and I'm going to scale this down like
this.
Maybe move it.
So I'm just making sure that it's going to cover that hole.
I'm going to tumble back up here.
And also I want to make sure that it isn't intersecting with any geometry and it is here I just want
it to not touch anything not cut through any of the existing objects.
So make sure it's there once again.
OK.
So that looks like it's pretty good.
So now that I have that one thing I'm going to need to do is U-V map it because I'm going to apply a
texture to it.
And of course you need a map to do that.
So I'll go to my U-V editing lay out and let's just go to Edit mode and press you and unwrap and I'll
bring in an image.
I found and I'll bring in an image I found so many a press shift a and bring in an image texture.
I should probably also bring in a texture coordinate
and map the U.V. to the vector and the color to the color and I'll browse for that texture.
Here it is sky too I think.
All right.
Let's take a look at that.
I'm going to save.
And then let's go back to our default view and let's take a look.
Yeah that's looking pretty good it's just got some wisps of clouds there and that's really all I want.
I don't want it to be distracting.
Just want it to look like that there's a world out there that there's something happening.
And frankly with the camera moving in so quickly we're only going to see that for a very short time.
Now the last thing I should deal with in terms of lighting is when the spotlight actually comes on because
I don't want to be on for the entire scene.
I just wanted to come on after he lands.
So let's take a look at how we would do this.
I'm going to go to my animation screen layout and I want to select that light.
So it's down here I believe.
Right here.
So what I need to do is key the light at this point and I want to keep it so it's off.
So with that light selected I'll come over here to the strength and right now it's at 15000.
So what I can do is I can right click on the strength field and choose insert keyframe.
But what I want to do is I want to zero this out first like so and insert a keyframe here.
Now I'd like to bring the mic down here and let me go to the camera view and I'll hit play.
So he comes down
moves forward drops and then I'd like the light to come on.
So just before I'd like the light to come on after he lands and before that light turns so somewhere.
Let's see he drops up light comes on let's say the light comes on to 20.
So I'm going to back up one frame and keep it at zero here to anchor that.
So insert a key frame there and then I'll move forward one frame change it to 15000 again was that right.
And then insert a key frame here.
So now it should stay at 0 strength all the way through here and then turn on that frame 20.
So if I go to frame 19 I'll go ahead and take a look at it in the rendered view.
We can see here that the light is off but that emission shader on the lens is on as well.
So we need to do the same thing for this we need to key that emission off to this point.
And then on on the next frame.
So if I go to the next frame we should see as it renders that that spotlight is on and then we go.
All right.
So let's go back and do the same thing with the emission shader on the lens.
I'll go back to my solid view and go back to frame 2:19 and I'll select the lens.
Let's go to the material
and in the emission Shater let's change this strength.
So it's at one now at frame 2:19 where we are now it should be zero.
So I'll insert a key frame here and then at 220 I'll move forward one frame with the arrow key.
We should be able to change this to one and insert a key frame here.
Now I'll also go back to frame one here and make sure that we've got it keyed at zero there as well.
So now we should be able to see that on frame 219 both the spotlight and the lens are off.
Let's take a look.
Yes.
That looks good.
And then we go forward one frame and now we see the lenses on and the cone should come on as well.
All right.
So there we go we have the lightings set up in the next video we'll move on to seeing what we can do
about creating some sort of jet thruster effect for the next jet pack.